Re: LG15672
    Classical simulation of quantum error correction in a Fibonacci anyon
    code
    by Simon Burton, Courtney G. Brell, and Steven T. Flammia

Dear Dr. Brell,

The above manuscript has been reviewed by our referees.

The resulting reports include a critique which is sufficiently adverse
that we cannot accept your paper on the basis of material now at hand.
We append pertinent comments.

If you feel that you can overcome or refute the criticism, you may
resubmit to Physical Review Letters.  With any resubmittal, please
include a summary of changes made and a brief response to all
recommendations and criticisms.

Yours sincerely,

Sonja Grondalski
Associate Editor
Physical Review Letters
Email: prl@aps.org
http://journals.aps.org/prl/

IMPORTANT: Editorial "Review Changes"
http://journals.aps.org/prl/edannounce/PhysRevLett.111.180001

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee A -- LG15672/Burton
----------------------------------------------------------------------

See Attachment: lg15672_report_1_a.pdf

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee B -- LG15672/Burton
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In a previous paper the authors (together with other collaborators)
had studied error correction for non-abelian anyon models that admit
an efficient classical simulation. The present manuscript provides an
extension to models that do not admit such an efficient simulation,
and in particular focuses on Fibonacci anyons. The main contribution
is the observation that quantum error correction under a percolation
threshold can be efficiently simulated even if in general it might be
not, as long as clustering is used for error correction. I do not
recommend the publication of the paper in PRL due to its incremental
nature. Moreover, although researchers working in the simulation of
quantum error correction for anyon models will be interested in the
result, I believe that the impact will be far from being as high as
required in PRL. I suggest that the paper is submitted to PRA, and
that it is extended to include more details. A few more specific
comments follow:

- In the abstract a value of the threshold is given and compared with
that for abelian anyon models, but later it is stated that in fact the
two kinds of thresholds are not comparable, except in a limit. It
would be good to clarify this issue more explicitly in the text
(rather than just with a reference), if not also in the abstract. If a
more direct comparison is possible, it should be explained why the
difference in the numerical value (if any) arises in going from
abelian to non-abelian. If a more direct comparison is not possible,
the abstract should be more explicit about it.

- At the end of the introduction it is stated that these are the first
results regarding error correction on non-abelian (universal) anyon
models. Why would it not be possible to apply conventional error
correction in such systems?

- Regarding the motivation, and in connection with the above, what is
the intended experimental target of these protocols? Is it clear that
a quantum computer based on non-abelian anyons would be able to make
use of these techniques? In the abelian case the target are (usually)
codes, circuit implementations. The language used in the paper seems
to point in a different direction, for example when noise is discussed
as "thermal noise". A more clear motivation would help.

- The section "topological model" is quite well written, but it would
be even better if the text below eq. 2 gave explicit equations, and
the final paragraph was expanded to actually explain the origin of the
degeneracy.

- The error correction algorithm is presented in a single cryptic
paragraph full of jargon. Much more detail is needed, unless only
experts in such algorithms should understand what is going on.

- Which are the "random processes that violate this reasoning" in the
classical simulability argument?

- Which are the "heuristics that minimize braid moves"?

- What is it meant by a "leakage error" in these kind of systems?
